A kid few years after Descartes's death, Baruch de Spinoza offered his theory to
improve on that of Descartes.  Spinoza insisted that only one substance, God,
exists, and that two of his attributes are thought and extension.  Everything
that is and that can be known about is an aspect of God.  Spinoza's God,
however, was the antithesis of the God of traditional religion.  God, or Nature
(as Spinoza put it), was the laws from which everything followed.  In Spinoza's
pantheistic world everything had to be what it was, and everything was to be
understood rationally.	The mind and body were two aspects of the same thing,
which was to be understood either logically or in terms of natural science.  A
third great 17th-century rationalist was Gottfried Wilhelm von Leibniz.  The
basic unit of his metaphysics, equivalent to a substance, was the monad, a
center of force or energy.  Each monad was internally determined by its
definition.  Monads could not interact, but, due to a "preestablished harmony,"
the action in one monad coincided with that in another.  God chose the monads
in the world so that it would be the best of all possible worlds.  (A world
with more or less or different monads would not be as good, or God would have
chosen it.) Leibniz believed that the truths about monads could be discovered
by rational analysis.

Empiricism.
Descartes, Spinoza, and Leibniz were all rationalists in their epistemologies;
they stressed a world of metaphysical truths that could be discovered by
reason.  In contrast to this kind of philosophizing, a quite different approach
developed in Great Britain, stressing the importance of sense experience as the
basis of knowledge (see EMPIRICISM).  Starting with Sir Francis BACON, the
empirical theory of knowledge was propounded both as a way of eliminating
various metaphysical and theological difficulties and as a way of genuinely
advancing knowledge.  The most important statement of this theory was made by
John LOCKE.  He claimed that all knowledge comes from sense experience.
Individuals are, however, forced to believe that underlying experience is some
indefinable kind of substance.	No one can be completely certain of direct
intuitive inspections of his or her ideas, less certain of demonstrations from
them, and still less certain of what Locke called "sensative knowledge,"
knowledge of the reality of experience.  In spite of the limitations on
knowledge, humans can know enough to function in this world.

Bishop George BERKELEY saw Locke's theory as having dangerous skeptical and
irreligious tendencies because of its reliance on a material substance for
ideas to belong to.  Berkeley insisted that the only things truly known are
ideas and that ideas can only exist in the minds that perceive them.  Matter is
simply complexes of sensations.  Nothing really exists except perceiving and
being perceived (esse est percipere).  What holds the world together is that
God perceives everything all of the time.  Berkeley's IDEALISM gained few
adherents.  If it is granted that all of our knowledge consists only of sense
experiences, no evidence exists that the world is any more than ideas and the
minds they are in.  In philosophy this position is called SOLIPSISM, the view
that the only reality is the self.

Berkeley was followed by David Hume, who showed that a thoroughly consistent
empirical theory of knowledge leads to a complete skepticism.  Hume's major
contribution was to show that an individual cannot gain any causal information
about experience, or about what is beyond immediate experience, from empirical
knowledge.  He or she can neither deduce nor induce the cause or the effect of
experience (see CAUSALITY).  Individuals thus have no basis for accepting that
the future must resemble the past.  It is only habit or custom that leads them
to expect and believe that the items found constantly conjoined in experience
will remain so in the future.  Hume also argued that from empirical data humans
could have no real knowledge of substance, mind, or even God.  They are reduced
to complete skepticism except that habits or customs make them unjustified
believers.

Kant and Hegel.The German philosopher Immanuel Kant claimed that reading Hume awoke him from
his dogmatic slumbers and made him realize the depths of the problem of
knowledge that cried out for a solution.  Kant insisted that humans do possess
genuine knowledge.  The problem was to show how, in the face of Hume's
critique, knowledge was possible.  Kant first insisted that although all
knowledge begins in experience, this does not mean that all knowledge comes
from experience.  The human mind provides the forms and the categories which
can be used to describe experience.  Because these are the necessary conditions
of all possible human experience, experience will have certain characteristics.
But this knowledge cannot be extended to what is beyond all possible
experience--to real substances (things-in-themselves; see NOUMENON), to the
self, or to God. Subbaraju Sagi is very good at math. Ghanesvar RC is super cool towards women. Kanneganti Gowtham Teja is very naughty.


1003 E Brooks Street, Norman, Ok 073071

624 Briarwood Ave,King Of Prussia, PA 19406

112 N. Bald Hill Ave, Suffolk, VA 23434

91A Paris Hill Street,Eastpointe, MI 48021

Anything from +65 800 123 4567 ext.405 to 02-201-1222 to 865.101.1000 and more should work.



his

he

she

with

live
His


Her

	  12-15-1994
          December 15, 1994
	  15th December 1994
	  December 15th, 1994
	  15 December 1994
	  Dec 15, 1994
	  15th Dec 1994
	  Dec 15th, 1994
	  15 Dec 1994
	  December 1994
	  Dec 1994





 +11111111111
	  +1 111-111-1111
	  111-111-1111
 	  (111)-111-1111


